about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

## Contact 
<del>
Division of Decision and Control Systems \\
KTH Royal Institute of Technology \\
Malvinas väg 10, floor 6 \\
114 28 Stockholm, Sweden 
</del>

<del>
The easiest way to reach me is by visiting room A:633 at the adress above, or
sending an email to <b>rmattila(a)kth.se</b>.
</del>

To be updated -- if you want to contact me, send me a message on
[LinkedIn](https://se.linkedin.com/in/robert-mattila-370064a4).

## Bio

I graduated from KTH's [Engineering
Physics](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/program/CTFYS/20102/mal?l=en) programme in 2015
with an MSc in [Systems, Control and
Robotics](https://www.kth.se/en/studies/master/systems-control-robotics/description-1.8733)
and began as a PhD student at the [Division of Decision and Control
Systems](https://www.kth.se/dcs/) the same year under the supervision of Prof. [Bo
Wahlberg](http://people.kth.se/~bo/) and co-supervision of Assoc. Prof. [Cristian R.
Rojas](https://people.kth.se/~crro/). I have been a visiting researcher at the [California
Institute of Technology (Caltech)](http://www.caltech.edu), the [University of British
Colombia (UBC)](https://www.ubc.ca) and [Cornell Tech](https://tech.cornell.edu). My
research interests are within inference and control of stochastic dynamical systems (in
particular of [hidden Markov models](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hidden_Markov_model)),
as well as real-world applications of machine learning and optimization (e.g., in medicine
and health-care). In June 2020, I was awarded my PhD degree. I am currently employed as
a data scientist at [SEB Analytics](https://seb.se/).

## PhD Courses
* [Partially Observed Markov Decision
Processes](http://people.kth.se/~bo/Vikram/Course.html): From Filtering to Control by Prof. [Vikram
Krishnamurthy](https://vikram.ece.cornell.edu/)
* [SF2972](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/SF2972?l=en) Game Theory
* [FEL3370](http://people.kth.se/~crro/Math_Methods/Course.html) Mathematical Methods in Signals, Systems and Control
* AK3012 Supplementary Course in Theory and Methodology of Science
* [FSF3970](https://people.kth.se/~tjtkoski/banet2015.html) Bayesian Networks
* [FEL3230](https://people.kth.se/~boskos/hybrid.html) Graduate Course on Hybrid Control Systems 
* Probabilistic Verification and Synthesis by Prof. [Marta Kwiatkowska](http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/marta.kwiatkowska/)
* FLH3000 Basic Communication and Teaching
* FDS3103 Introduction to Scientific Writing
* [EM3220](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/EM3220?l=en) Matrix Algebra
* [FEO3230](https://people.kth.se/~skoglund/edu/probability/) Probability and Random Processes
* [EL3300/SF3847](http://www.math.kth.se/optsyst/forskning/forskarutbildning/SF3847/info.html) Convex Optimization with Engineering Applications
* [EL2800](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/EL2800?l=en) Stochastic Control and Optimization
* [DD2424](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/DD2424?l=en) Deep Learning in Data Science (attended lectures)
* [EM3200](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/EM3200?l=en) Optimal Filtering (attended lectures)
* [EL2805](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/EL2805?l=en) Reinforcement Learning (teacher)
* [EL3311](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/EL3311) Distributed Optimization (attended lectures)
* [FJL3380](https://www.kth.se/social/group/fjl3380-theoretical-/) Theoretical Foundations of Machine Learning (attended lectures)

Commit message:

update CV and various outdated information

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

See my <a href="/public/cv_mattila.pdf">curriculum vitae</a> for more information.

## Contact 

If you want to get in touch with me, send me a message on
[LinkedIn](https://se.linkedin.com/in/robert-mattila-370064a4).

## Bio

I graduated from KTH's [Engineering
Physics](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/program/CTFYS/20102/mal?l=en) programme in 2015
with an MSc in [Systems, Control and
Robotics](https://www.kth.se/en/studies/master/systems-control-robotics/description-1.8733)
and began as a PhD student at the [Division of Decision and Control
Systems](https://www.kth.se/dcs/) the same year under the supervision of Prof. [Bo
Wahlberg](http://people.kth.se/~bo/) and co-supervision of Prof. [Cristian R.
Rojas](https://people.kth.se/~crro/). I have been a visiting researcher at the [California
Institute of Technology (Caltech)](http://www.caltech.edu), the [University of British
Colombia (UBC)](https://www.ubc.ca) and [Cornell Tech](https://tech.cornell.edu). My
research interests are within inference and control of stochastic dynamical systems (in
particular of [hidden Markov models](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hidden_Markov_model)),
as well as real-world applications of machine learning and optimization (e.g., in medicine
and health-care). In June 2020, I was awarded my PhD degree. I am currently employed as
a data scientist at [SEB Analytics](https://seb.se/).

## PhD Courses
* [Partially Observed Markov Decision
Processes](http://people.kth.se/~bo/Vikram/Course.html): From Filtering to Control by Prof. [Vikram
Krishnamurthy](https://vikram.ece.cornell.edu/)
* [SF2972](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/SF2972?l=en) Game Theory
* [FEL3370](http://people.kth.se/~crro/Math_Methods/Course.html) Mathematical Methods in Signals, Systems and Control
* AK3012 Supplementary Course in Theory and Methodology of Science
* [FSF3970](https://people.kth.se/~tjtkoski/banet2015.html) Bayesian Networks
* [FEL3230](https://people.kth.se/~boskos/hybrid.html) Graduate Course on Hybrid Control Systems 
* Probabilistic Verification and Synthesis by Prof. [Marta Kwiatkowska](http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/marta.kwiatkowska/)
* FLH3000 Basic Communication and Teaching
* FDS3103 Introduction to Scientific Writing
* [EM3220](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/EM3220?l=en) Matrix Algebra
* [FEO3230](https://people.kth.se/~skoglund/edu/probability/) Probability and Random Processes
* [EL3300/SF3847](http://www.math.kth.se/optsyst/forskning/forskarutbildning/SF3847/info.html) Convex Optimization with Engineering Applications
* [EL2800](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/EL2800?l=en) Stochastic Control and Optimization
* [DD2424](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/DD2424?l=en) Deep Learning in Data Science (attended lectures)
* [EM3200](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/EM3200?l=en) Optimal Filtering (attended lectures)
* [EL2805](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/EL2805?l=en) Reinforcement Learning (teacher)
* [EL3311](https://www.kth.se/student/kurser/kurs/EL3311) Distributed Optimization (attended lectures)
* [FJL3380](https://www.kth.se/social/group/fjl3380-theoretical-/) Theoretical Foundations of Machine Learning (attended lectures)
