publications.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Publications
---

### Selected:


* [*Hidden Markov Models: Identification, Inverse Filtering and
  Applications*](https://kth.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1428900/FULLTEXT01.pdf)
    * PhD thesis, 2020.

* [*Fast and Consistent Learning of Hidden Markov Models by Incorporating Non-Consecutive
Correlations*](https://proceedings.icml.cc/static/paper_files/icml/2020/3896-Paper.pdf)
    * In ICML, 2020.

* *[Inverse Filtering for Hidden Markov
  Models](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/7008-inverse-filtering-for-hidden-markov-models)*
    * In NIPS, 2017.

* [*Asymptotically Efficient Identification of Known-Sensor Hidden Markov
  Models*](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8060991/)
    * In IEEE SPL, 2017. 

<hr/>

Here is a list of my work:

### Pre-Prints:

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *[Inverse
  Filtering for Hidden Markov Models with Applications to Counter-Adversarial Autonomous
Systems](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2001.11809.pdf)*, 2020.

### Journals:

* Roberto G. Ramírez-Chavarría, Matias I. Müller, Robert Mattila, Gustavo
  Quintana-Carapia, Celia Sánchez-Pérez, [*A Framework for High-Resolution Frequency
Response Measurement and Parameter Estimation in Microscale Impedance
Applications*](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263224119307705).
Measurement, 2019.

* Robert Mattila, Inês Lourenço, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy, Bo Wahlberg,
  [*Estimating Private Beliefs of Bayesian Agents Based on Observed
Decisions*](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8693524). IEEE Control Systems Letters,
2019, 3.3, 523-528.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy, Bo Wahlberg, [*Asymptotically
Efficient Identification of Known-Sensor Hidden Markov
Models*](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8060991/).  IEEE Signal Processing Letters,
2017, 24.12: 1813-1817. 

### Conferences:


* Inês Lourenço, Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas and Bo Wahlberg, *[How to Protect Your
  Privacy?  A Framework for Counter-Adversarial Decision
Making](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2004.04119.pdf)*. In the 59th IEEE Conference on Decision
and Control (CDC'20), Jeju Island, Republic of Korea, 2020.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Eric Moulines, Vikram Krishnamurthy, and Bo Wahlberg,
  [*Fast and Consistent Learning of Hidden Markov Models by Incorporating Non-Consecutive
Correlations*](https://proceedings.icml.cc/static/paper_files/icml/2020/3896-Paper.pdf).
In the 37th International Conference on Machine Learning (**ICML'20**), 2020.

* Robert Mattila, Inês Lourenço, Vikram Krishnamurthy, Cristian R. Rojas and Bo Wahlberg,
  [*What Did Your Adversary Believe? Optimal Filtering and Smoothing in
Counter-Adversarial Autonomous Systems*](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.07332.pdf).
In the 45th IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal
Processing (ICASSP'20), Barcelona, Spain, 2020.

* Robert Mattila, Inês Lourenço, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
  [*Estimating Private Beliefs of Bayesian Agents Based on Observed
Decisions*](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8693524). In the 58th IEEE Conference on
Decision and Control (CDC'19), Nice, France, 2019.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *[Inverse
  Filtering for Linear Gaussian State-Space
Models](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8619013)*. In the 57th IEEE Conference on
Decision and Control (CDC'18), Miami Beach, FL, USA, 2018.

* Roberto G. Ramírez-Chavarría, Gustavo Quintana-Carapia, Matias I. Müller, Robert
  Mattila, Daniel Matatagui, Celia Sánchez-Pérez, *[Bioimpedance Parameter Estimation
using Fast Spectral Measurements and
Regularization](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405896318318706)*. In
the 18th IFAC Symposium on System Identification (SYSID'18), Stockholm, Sweden, 2018. 

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *[Inverse
  Filtering for Hidden Markov
Models](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/7008-inverse-filtering-for-hidden-markov-models)*. In
the 31st Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (**NIPS'17**), Long
Beach, USA, 2017.  [Poster](http://rmattila.github.io/public/nips17_poster.pdf).

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
[*Identification of Hidden Markov Models Using Spectral Learning with Likelihood
Maximization*](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8264545/). In the 56th IEEE Conference
on Decision and Control (CDC'17), Melbourne, Australia, 2017.

* Antti Siika, Robert Mattila, Bo Wahlberg and Joy Roy. *[An Optimal Gender-Specific
Treatment Policy for Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms Constructed Using a Markov Decision
Process Model](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S074152141730770X)*. In
the Society for Vascular Surgery’s Vascular Annual Meeting (VAM’17), San Diego, USA, 2017.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy,
Bo Wahlberg, *[Computing monotone policies for Markov decision processes:
a nearly-isotonic penalty approach](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1704.00621.pdf)*.
In the 20th IFAC World Congress, Toulouse, France, 2017.

* Robert Mattila, Antti Siika, Joy Roy and Bo Wahlberg, [*A Markov Decision Process Model
to Guide Treatment of Abdominal Aortic
Aneurysms*](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7587869/).  In the IEEE Conference on
Control Applications (CCA'16), Buenos Aires, Argentina, 2016.  <br>*A 
version with larger figures is available on [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.02177).*
A general summary is available on the KTH website in
[English](https://www.kth.se/en/forskning/artiklar/da-ar-det-bast-att-operera-artarbrack-1.684616)
and
[Swedish](https://www.kth.se/forskning/artiklar/da-ar-det-bast-att-operera-artarbrack-1.684616).

* Robert Mattila, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, [*Recursive
Identification of Chain Dynamics in Hidden Markov Models Using Non-Negative
Matrix
Factorization*](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=7402843).
In 54th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, Osaka, Japan, 2015.

* Robert Mattila, Yilin Mo and Richard M. Murray, [*An Iterative Abstraction
Algorithm for Reactive Correct-by-Construction Controller
Synthesis*](http://arxiv.org/abs/1509.04125). In 54th IEEE Conference on
Decision and Control, Osaka, Japan, 2015.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas and Bo Wahlberg, [*Evaluation of Spectral Learning
for the Identification of Hidden Markov
Models*](http://arxiv.org/abs/1507.06346). In 17th IFAC Symposium on System
Identification (SYSID 2015), Beijing, China, 2015. 

### Theses:

* Robert Mattila, [*Hidden Markov Models: Identification, Inverse Filtering and
  Applications*](https://kth.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1428900/FULLTEXT01.pdf).
PhD thesis, KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Stockholm, Sweden, 2020.

* Robert Mattila, [*Hidden Markov models: Identification, control and inverse
filtering*](http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1186464/FULLTEXT01.pdf).
Licentiate thesis, KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Stockholm, Sweden, 2018.

* Robert Mattila, [*On Identification of Hidden Markov Models Using Spectral
and Non-Negative Matrix Factorization
Methods*](http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2%3A808842&dswid=4818).
Master's thesis, KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Stockholm, Sweden, 2015.

### Other:

* Robert Mattila, Inês Lourenço, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
  *Estimating Private Beliefs Based on Observed Decisions*. Poster at the 2019 Workshop of
the European Research Network on System Identification (ERNSI), September, Maastricht, the
Netherlands.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Eric Moulines, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
  *Method of Moment Estimation of Hidden Markov Models*. Poster at the 2018 Workshop of the
European Research Network on System Identification (ERNSI), September, Cambridge, U.K.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
*Inverse Filtering for Linear Gaussian State-Space Models*. Presentation at Reglermötet
2018, June, Stockholm, Sweden.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, [*Inverse
Filtering for Hidden Markov Models*](http://rmattila.github.io/public/nips17_poster.pdf).
Poster at the 2018 [WASP AI4X
Industry](http://wasp-sweden.org/ai/ai4x/ai4x-industry/), February, Stockholm, Sweden.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *Inverse
Filtering for Hidden Markov Models*. Poster at the 2017 Workshop of the European Research
Network on System Identification (ERNSI), September, Lyon, France.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *Method of
Moments Identification of Hidden Markov Models with Known Sensor Uncertainty Using Convex
Optimization*. Poster at the 2016 Workshop of the European Research Network on System
Identification (ERNSI), September, Cison di Valmarino, Italy.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
*Method of Moments Identification of Hidden Markov Models
with Known Sensor Uncertainty Using Convex Optimization*. Poster at Reglermötet
2016, June, Göteborg, Sweden.

* Robert Mattila, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *Recursive Method of
Moments Identification of Hidden Markov Models using Convex
Optimization*. Poster at the 2015 Workshop of
the European Research Network on System Identification (ERNSI), September,
Varberg, Sweden.

Commit message:

add link to Google Scholar

publications.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Publications
---

See also my <a href="https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=IaRmGkgAAAAJ&hl=en">Google Scholar</a>.

### Selected:


* [*Hidden Markov Models: Identification, Inverse Filtering and
  Applications*](https://kth.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1428900/FULLTEXT01.pdf)
    * PhD thesis, 2020.

* [*Fast and Consistent Learning of Hidden Markov Models by Incorporating Non-Consecutive
Correlations*](https://proceedings.icml.cc/static/paper_files/icml/2020/3896-Paper.pdf)
    * In ICML, 2020.

* *[Inverse Filtering for Hidden Markov
  Models](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/7008-inverse-filtering-for-hidden-markov-models)*
    * In NIPS, 2017.

* [*Asymptotically Efficient Identification of Known-Sensor Hidden Markov
  Models*](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8060991/)
    * In IEEE SPL, 2017. 

<hr/>

Here is a list of my work:

### Pre-Prints:

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *[Inverse
  Filtering for Hidden Markov Models with Applications to Counter-Adversarial Autonomous
Systems](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2001.11809.pdf)*, 2020. Accepted, and to be published, in the
[IEEE Transactions on Signal
Processing](https://signalprocessingsociety.org/publications-resources/ieee-transactions-signal-processing).

### Journals:

* Roberto G. Ramírez-Chavarría, Matias I. Müller, Robert Mattila, Gustavo
  Quintana-Carapia, Celia Sánchez-Pérez, [*A Framework for High-Resolution Frequency
Response Measurement and Parameter Estimation in Microscale Impedance
Applications*](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263224119307705).
Measurement, 2019.

* Robert Mattila, Inês Lourenço, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy, Bo Wahlberg,
  [*Estimating Private Beliefs of Bayesian Agents Based on Observed
Decisions*](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8693524). IEEE Control Systems Letters,
2019, 3.3, 523-528.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy, Bo Wahlberg, [*Asymptotically
Efficient Identification of Known-Sensor Hidden Markov
Models*](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8060991/).  IEEE Signal Processing Letters,
2017, 24.12: 1813-1817. 

### Conferences:


* Inês Lourenço, Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas and Bo Wahlberg, *[How to Protect Your
  Privacy?  A Framework for Counter-Adversarial Decision
Making](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2004.04119.pdf)*. In the 59th IEEE Conference on Decision
and Control (CDC'20), Jeju Island, Republic of Korea, 2020.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Eric Moulines, Vikram Krishnamurthy, and Bo Wahlberg,
  [*Fast and Consistent Learning of Hidden Markov Models by Incorporating Non-Consecutive
Correlations*](https://proceedings.icml.cc/static/paper_files/icml/2020/3896-Paper.pdf).
In the 37th International Conference on Machine Learning (**ICML'20**), 2020.

* Robert Mattila, Inês Lourenço, Vikram Krishnamurthy, Cristian R. Rojas and Bo Wahlberg,
  [*What Did Your Adversary Believe? Optimal Filtering and Smoothing in
Counter-Adversarial Autonomous Systems*](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.07332.pdf).
In the 45th IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal
Processing (ICASSP'20), Barcelona, Spain, 2020.

* Robert Mattila, Inês Lourenço, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
  [*Estimating Private Beliefs of Bayesian Agents Based on Observed
Decisions*](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8693524). In the 58th IEEE Conference on
Decision and Control (CDC'19), Nice, France, 2019.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *[Inverse
  Filtering for Linear Gaussian State-Space
Models](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8619013)*. In the 57th IEEE Conference on
Decision and Control (CDC'18), Miami Beach, FL, USA, 2018.

* Roberto G. Ramírez-Chavarría, Gustavo Quintana-Carapia, Matias I. Müller, Robert
  Mattila, Daniel Matatagui, Celia Sánchez-Pérez, *[Bioimpedance Parameter Estimation
using Fast Spectral Measurements and
Regularization](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405896318318706)*. In
the 18th IFAC Symposium on System Identification (SYSID'18), Stockholm, Sweden, 2018. 

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *[Inverse
  Filtering for Hidden Markov
Models](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/7008-inverse-filtering-for-hidden-markov-models)*. In
the 31st Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (**NIPS'17**), Long
Beach, USA, 2017.  [Poster](http://rmattila.github.io/public/nips17_poster.pdf).

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
[*Identification of Hidden Markov Models Using Spectral Learning with Likelihood
Maximization*](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8264545/). In the 56th IEEE Conference
on Decision and Control (CDC'17), Melbourne, Australia, 2017.

* Antti Siika, Robert Mattila, Bo Wahlberg and Joy Roy. *[An Optimal Gender-Specific
Treatment Policy for Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms Constructed Using a Markov Decision
Process Model](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S074152141730770X)*. In
the Society for Vascular Surgery’s Vascular Annual Meeting (VAM’17), San Diego, USA, 2017.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy,
Bo Wahlberg, *[Computing monotone policies for Markov decision processes:
a nearly-isotonic penalty approach](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1704.00621.pdf)*.
In the 20th IFAC World Congress, Toulouse, France, 2017.

* Robert Mattila, Antti Siika, Joy Roy and Bo Wahlberg, [*A Markov Decision Process Model
to Guide Treatment of Abdominal Aortic
Aneurysms*](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7587869/).  In the IEEE Conference on
Control Applications (CCA'16), Buenos Aires, Argentina, 2016.  <br>*A 
version with larger figures is available on [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.02177).*
A general summary is available on the KTH website in
[English](https://www.kth.se/en/forskning/artiklar/da-ar-det-bast-att-operera-artarbrack-1.684616)
and
[Swedish](https://www.kth.se/forskning/artiklar/da-ar-det-bast-att-operera-artarbrack-1.684616).

* Robert Mattila, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, [*Recursive
Identification of Chain Dynamics in Hidden Markov Models Using Non-Negative
Matrix
Factorization*](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=7402843).
In 54th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, Osaka, Japan, 2015.

* Robert Mattila, Yilin Mo and Richard M. Murray, [*An Iterative Abstraction
Algorithm for Reactive Correct-by-Construction Controller
Synthesis*](http://arxiv.org/abs/1509.04125). In 54th IEEE Conference on
Decision and Control, Osaka, Japan, 2015.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas and Bo Wahlberg, [*Evaluation of Spectral Learning
for the Identification of Hidden Markov
Models*](http://arxiv.org/abs/1507.06346). In 17th IFAC Symposium on System
Identification (SYSID 2015), Beijing, China, 2015. 

### Theses:

* Robert Mattila, [*Hidden Markov Models: Identification, Inverse Filtering and
  Applications*](https://kth.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1428900/FULLTEXT01.pdf).
PhD thesis, KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Stockholm, Sweden, 2020.

* Robert Mattila, [*Hidden Markov models: Identification, control and inverse
filtering*](http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1186464/FULLTEXT01.pdf).
Licentiate thesis, KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Stockholm, Sweden, 2018.

* Robert Mattila, [*On Identification of Hidden Markov Models Using Spectral
and Non-Negative Matrix Factorization
Methods*](http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2%3A808842&dswid=4818).
Master's thesis, KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Stockholm, Sweden, 2015.

### Other:

* Robert Mattila, Inês Lourenço, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
  *Estimating Private Beliefs Based on Observed Decisions*. Poster at the 2019 Workshop of
the European Research Network on System Identification (ERNSI), September, Maastricht, the
Netherlands.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Eric Moulines, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
  *Method of Moment Estimation of Hidden Markov Models*. Poster at the 2018 Workshop of the
European Research Network on System Identification (ERNSI), September, Cambridge, U.K.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
*Inverse Filtering for Linear Gaussian State-Space Models*. Presentation at Reglermötet
2018, June, Stockholm, Sweden.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, [*Inverse
Filtering for Hidden Markov Models*](http://rmattila.github.io/public/nips17_poster.pdf).
Poster at the 2018 [WASP AI4X
Industry](http://wasp-sweden.org/ai/ai4x/ai4x-industry/), February, Stockholm, Sweden.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *Inverse
Filtering for Hidden Markov Models*. Poster at the 2017 Workshop of the European Research
Network on System Identification (ERNSI), September, Lyon, France.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *Method of
Moments Identification of Hidden Markov Models with Known Sensor Uncertainty Using Convex
Optimization*. Poster at the 2016 Workshop of the European Research Network on System
Identification (ERNSI), September, Cison di Valmarino, Italy.

* Robert Mattila, Cristian R. Rojas, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg,
*Method of Moments Identification of Hidden Markov Models
with Known Sensor Uncertainty Using Convex Optimization*. Poster at Reglermötet
2016, June, Göteborg, Sweden.

* Robert Mattila, Vikram Krishnamurthy and Bo Wahlberg, *Recursive Method of
Moments Identification of Hidden Markov Models using Convex
Optimization*. Poster at the 2015 Workshop of
the European Research Network on System Identification (ERNSI), September,
Varberg, Sweden.
